# <Sofrt-Simple-test>

## Description

This repository contains a simple test for Softr in Playwright.
The test was written using VS Code and I highly recommend this editor for local test execution in Playwright. The instructions for setting up VS Code with Playwright can be found in [Playwright Getting Started - VS Code](https://playwright.dev/docs/getting-started-vscode) documentation.

## Table of Contents (Optional)

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Local test setup](#Local-test-setup)

## Installation

To start you need to clone the project to your local machine and run either using VS Code tooling or directly from your command line. 

You can follow the instructions available on the [Playwright Command line](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-cli) documentation for the command line. 

## Test description

In this test I decided to implement a page object pattern for `before` and `after` sections, to avoid long unreadable test body. 

The Page object models are commonly used in Playwright and in general, are recommended for larger test suites. They provide benefits such as:

- Code Reusability and Maintainability
- Readability
- Scalability

## Local test setup

**Before you start make sure you update test with the correct signup data.**

In the test body you need to update `email:` value.

Currently, it accepts Gmail accounts with aliases generated by Faker. This however can be updated to any other email.  
Ideally, the test should either use an internal tooling for creating accounts with custom domains or use external sollution like https://testmail.app/.

```
var user = {
  name: (faker.name.findName as any)(),
  email: (`valid.email+${faker.lorem.word(5)}@gmail.com`), -> (`jon.doe+${faker.lorem.word(5)}@gmail.com`)
  password: faker.lorem.word(10)
};
```